Let's go through the commands that were generated by
the Selenium IDE in our last test.
You'll see all the commands that we have in this associated IDE
window and their targets and subsequent values.
The first one that's out there is the open command.
You can see that here. It's on line 1 inside of our IDE. And
the target for that is a forward slash.
That's used in conjunction with that base URL from up above,
so that https://www.selenium.dev. It appends that slash onto the end
of that, so that's a combination of those two.
The next one in there isn't really that impressive.
It's a set window size command, and that's just because we have
a specific window size inside of our test.
And it's saying that mine, for example, is 1086 x 1077.
Theoretically, we could actually delete that command, but it's done as part of
our test so that it reformats it the same way each time.
So I leave it there for just the sake of making it easier to see
what's going on because I have these two windows tiled side by
side. But the next one is a click command.
That click command has a target,
which if we select it will say CSS is equal to
.nav‑item:nth‑child with a selection of 1.
Now why this is important is if we right‑click on this
particular command and say play to this point,
it'll open up our window,
navigate to clicking this item, and I can take over from here. Choose that
nav item, and this is where it's now popped up that menu.
One problem or possible error‑prone thing to point out is
that it is selecting the first element.
So if they reorganize their menu structure and say they put About at the end,
which honestly wouldn't be an odd place for it to be.
A lot of sites are set up that way with their navigation.
If we move this around,
we are looking for the first element in those parentheses.
So nth‑child and a parentheses of 1, it's referring
to this first menu item structure.
The next command below that where we click that linkTextAbout is
referring to the one down in this menu here.
So if we go back over to our IDE and click Play,
it'll go through and click on the linkText equal to About, and I
didn't have a breakpoint set to where it would stop it, but you can
see where it picks up based off that nth item selection of 1. And the
next piece in there is that linkText equal to About. So as it's going
through our menu structure, it's saying,
well, let's go to About. And if we inspect that element,
we can see what it's referring to here that there is this nav item. It's a
little tough to see. It gets lost in this HTML pretty easy.
There is a div class nav item, and it has the linkText inside of here of
About, and that's what that click CSS nav‑item:nth‑child(1) is referring to,
and then the link text itself of About is what this span that we're
highlighting right now is referring to as well.
From there, it will go to the same thing, which is another linkText of News.
And then when we're finally there, we will assert that that text is equal to what we're expecting to land on.